AI Plan 2.0: LOBOTOMY EDITION!!!

1. Check own deadwood count
2. Temporarily add the face up card from discard into hand
3. Check how own deadwood count changed:
    a. If deadwood decreased or stayed the same, this card fits a meld, so take it
    b. Else if face up card is within r = 2 of another card in hand, take it
    c. Else take the face down card
4. Store current deadwood count again
5. Iterate through each card in hand: temporarily remove it. If its absence decreases
    the deadwood count, then flag it for discarding.
6. If no card was discarded, iterate through again and discard the first card whos absence
    leaves the deadwood count at the same value-- thus not breaking any melds.
7. If no card was discarded, iterate through again and discard whichever card whos absence
    increases the deadwood count by the least
8. Recalculate deadwood. If less than 10, knock and become a big winner!



Legacy edition preserved below because hot damn is it nice:
This AI is able to beat Bill in the Gin Rummy game online, although I did slightly modify the ai from when it beat him (made queens and 2s have an increased chance of removal, since they are near the end of the suit they wlil only have 3 possible row card matches, like the kings and aces which only have two cards that form rows)

A summary of the AI:
Pick cards that complete melds or help out runs, throw away cards that don't help out in runs and especially Kings/Aces/Queens/2's because these cards have less possible components that form runs
You can passively earn sets while actively earning runs, but if you try to passively earn runs while actively earning sets you will progress much slower and lose.

AI logical processes:

Draw the card from the trash if the card:
1: Completes/increases a run
2: Completes a set or makes a set of 4 (ONLY if it completes or adds to a completed set)
3: Acts as a component of a set within an index radius of 2, where the trash card index+1 or index-1 is a card that was not already used by the player 
    (Example: If you have 3S and a 4S in your hand, and there is a 6S in the deck, then take it. But if the 5S has already been used somehow, then don't take it [unless it finishes a set--but you will have already decided to take it by then])
As soon as one of these conditions is true, draw from the trash. If none of these conditions are true, draw from the deck

Throwing away: (throwing away rank, highest=throw away)
Currently in a meld: -18
Came from the trash: t=-20
No friends in the suit: +2
2 components within radius 2 for run: -2
1 component within radius 2 for run: -2
No 3 of a kind friends: +2
A 3 of a kind that can be completed by a card that is currently face up in the trash in the discard stage, where the card has no other cards within radius of 2: +6
A 3 of a kind that can be completed by a card that is currently face up in the trash in the discard stage, where the card has at least other cards within radius of 2: +4
A card with two components within radius 2, where both components have been seen in the player hand/are no longer drawable +14
An ace or a king: +2
A queen or a jack: +1
If there is a tie, throw away the card with the lowest point value.
If there is a still a tie, throw away the leftmost card (the card with the lowest index

This was my initial idea for the AI:
The computer should be pretty good but not godlike, except on hardcore mode (if we choose to impliment difficulties)
Best permutations in order (to keep):
If the card is the completing card of two of the last two cards drawn by the player (either as a 3 of a kind or an ascending meld) then keep the card for 3 turns or until t
Any card that will complete an ascending meld (Deadwood - 3)
Any card that will complete a three-of-a-kind meld (Deadwood - 3)
Any card that will result an ascending meld with 1 missing card that has not been taken by the other player from the trash deck (Potentially deadwood - 3)
Any card that will add to an ascending meld (Deadwood - 1)
Any card that will add to a three-of-a-kind meld (Deadwood - 1)
Any card that has both upper and lower cards that have not yet been taken by the player from the trash deck
An ace or a king which has a 2 or a queen that has been taken by the player (this could be feeding the player a card they need to complete an ascending set but it is safer to just discard it)